<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "../dtd/concept.dtd">
<!-- 
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at      

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0  

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software  
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,  
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.  
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and  
limitations under the License.
-->
<concept id="csecjavasecurity" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Configuring Java security</title>
<shortdesc>The Java security manager lets you reduce the damage that your
application can do.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Using a security manager, the System Administrator can restrict how an
application cooperates with other applications running in the same virtual
machine (VM) or elsewhere on the same machine. When you run
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> under a security
manager, you can restrict the following:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>Backups</b>: You control where the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> engine writes and reads
database backup files.</li>
<li><b>Imports and exports</b>: You control where the engine imports data from
and where it exports data to.</li>
<li><b>Jar files</b>: You control where the engine obtains jar files of
customer-coded functions, procedures, types, and aggregates.</li>
<li><b>Sockets</b>: You control what machines can connect to the server and
what machines the server can connect to.</li>
</ul>
<p>To take advantage of these powerful controls, first customize one of the template
security policies documented here.
You can find these template security policies in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> distribution in the 
<codeph>demo/templates</codeph> directory.
Choose the policy which corresponds to the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> configuration which you are running:
</p>

<ul>
<li>Customize <xref href="rsecbasicengine.dita"/> if you are embedding
the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> engine in your application,
that is, if you are running the smallest footprint, core Derby configuration.</li>
<li>Customize <xref href="rsecbasicserver.dita"/> if you are running
the <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> network server.</li>
<li>Customize <xref href="rsecbasicclient.dita"/> if your application
runs on a remote machine and accesses 
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> databases across a network.</li>
<li>Customize <xref href="rsecbasictools.dita"/> if you need to run
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> tools locally
on the same machine as your databases.</li>
</ul>

<p>To customize these files, make the following edits:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>URLs</b>: Replace the <codeph>${derby.install.url}</codeph> variables
with a URL pointing to the directory that holds the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> jar files. For example:
<codeblock>file:///Users/me/javadb/lib/</codeblock> Alternatively, you
can set the <codeph>${derby.install.url}</codeph> system property
(via a -D flag) when you boot the JVM.</li>
<li><b>System home</b>: Look for instances of the string
<codeph>${derby.system.home}</codeph>. Replace them with the name of the
directory that holds your <codeph>derby.properties</codeph> file. Again, you
can also set this system property when you boot the JVM.</li>
<li><b>Tracing</b>: Grant
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> the power to manage a
directory tree that will hold server trace information. Look for the
<codeph>${derby.drda.traceDirectory}</codeph> variable and replace it with the
directory where the server should write its diagnostic traces. For more
information on <ph conref="../conrefs.dita#prod/productshortname"></ph> tracing,
see "Controlling tracing by using the trace facility" in the
<ph conref="../conrefs.dita#pub/citadmin"></ph>. Again, you can also set
this system property when you boot the JVM.</li>
<li><b>Backups/imports/jars</b>: Look for the commented-out permissions
related to backup/restore, import/export, and jar file loading.
If needed, uncomment these permissions, replacing the directory references
with secure locations in your local file system, preferably locations
which are owned by the database owner or the user who booted the JVM.</li>
<li><b>Sysinfo</b>: When customizing the template tools policy,
you should replace <codeph>&lt;&lt;ALL FILES>></codeph> with the directories which
hold the jar files which appear on your modulepath or classpath.</li>
<li><b>Sockets</b>: The template policy file accepts connection requests from
all hosts. You may want to restrict the template file's
<codeph>java.net.SocketPermission</codeph> to connections from a particular
subdomain. For details, see the API documentation for
<codeph>java.net.SocketPermission</codeph>. In addition, if you are using LDAP
authentication, then you must grant <codeph>derby.jar</codeph> the privilege to
connect to the LDAP server.</li>
</ul>
<p>This manual does not describe the Java security manager in depth. For more
information, see <xref format="html"
href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/"
scope="external"/>. In particular, you may want to read the
Security Architecture paper (<xref format="html"
href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/spec/security-spec.doc.html"
scope="external"/>)
and the Default Policy Implementation and Policy File Syntax information
(<xref format="html"
href="http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/security/PolicyFiles.html"
scope="external"/>).</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
